Hi everyone,

  My name is Tyler Bias. I'm originally from central Florida but moved to Pittsburgh in 2008 to attend the University of Pittsburgh. I double-majored in psychology and philosophy. I decided not to pursue either further by entering into a grad program, though both (particularly philosophy) remain major areas of interest and take up a good amount of my personal reading time. I've always really loved computers but for most of my life it was limited to exploring software and customizing programs through extensions and things of that nature.

  Towards the end of my time at Pitt I began to try to learn more earnestly about computers and coding and taught myself some of the basics in visual basic and python (very rudimentary basics, in retrospect). It was enough exposure for me to recognize that I found the process very engaging and satisfyling challenging. I have a friend who completed OSU's post-bacc computer science program and loved his experience in it. I have had a great time so far as well, and I am looking forward to getting to know the material and to work with you all.

  In my free time I enjoy trying to continue to read philosophy/psychoanalysis books, novels, poetry, etc. I play guitar and love music. My main area of interest as of late has been classical music, which has finally started to make some sense to me in the past few months. Other than that my main love is probably punk and indie rock. I live with my girlfriend and our chihuahua/jack russel, Fritz. I have recently gotten back into the world of video games and have been really enjoying some online multiplayer stuff like Call of Duty (I am a major latecomer to online gaming). I also love movies and am eagerly anticipating P.T. Anderson's Inherent Vice at the moment.

 Alternate timeline! In here, rather than talk about my job, I say that my absolute favorite composer is Jean Sibelius. His symphonies never fail to inspire or move me.

PROGRAMMING BACKGROUND:

  Well as I've already covered in the bio above, I dabbled a little bit with visual basic and python. I spent a little time trying to get a text-based adventure game going for fun early on but ran into a lot of trouble given my limited tool set. In my first class at OSU I built a program that would play a schoolyard game known as [chopsticks](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chopsticks_%28hand_game%29) against the user. The game is perfectly solved, so every state of the game has optimal play for at least one of the players. If player 2 plays perfectly from the beginning, player 2 will always win. I programmed optimal play into the computer and I also gave it a set of rules for trying to postpone a loss of it is in disadvantegous circumstances. It was not extremely difficult but it was by far the largest project I had built (still possibly the one I have spent the most time on thus far. I got really excited and kept trying to add on to it). I was very proud by the end.

  I am in my 4th term at OSU and am currently on the two-year track for this program. I really enjoyed both of my classes last term, Data Structures and Architecture/Assembly Language. Assembly was very opaque at first but I feel now that getting that look at the lower-level mechanics of programming was very eye-opening.
